Christopher C. Petro
petro@cpetro.us
720-285-5121

Employment History

March 2014 to Present: Teksystems/Comcast Inc., Contract Senior Linux
Administrator

Member of the operations team managing of Comcast's IP based Content
Distribution Networks (CDN)

· Deploying and managing servers (Centos 6.x on HP & Dell hardware)
using kickstart & puppet.

· Troubleshooting the CDN and Traffic Control (a Comcast written open
source control plane for Apache Traffic
serverhttp://traffic-control-cdn.net/).

· Writing & fixing scripts(bash, Perl, Python) for automation including
using Traffic Control API, & scripts
inside kickstart

· Worked closely with the engineering team to provide bug fixes, feature
enhancements and documentation for Traffic Control in Perl (listed as a
Contributor to Traffic Control)

· Helped manage the development environment, budgeting & ordering of new
equipment

· Mentored and provided leadership to junior employees

July 2013 to Dec 2013: Robert Half Technologies/Viasat, Contract Senior
Linux Administrator

Member of the Back Office Operations team

· Server provisioning with Cobbler including template customization with
Cheeta

· Installation with kickstart & configuration management with Puppet

· Python and Bash scripting as well as process documentation

November 2010 to December 2012: Raytheon IIS, Senior Technologist I

Provided System Administration (Unix, Red Hat Linux variants, etc.) in
Alice Springs, AU to the O&M organization (about 7 months) and to an R&D
lab (17 months)

· Worked with site security on integrating a new firewall & security audits.

· Assisted with budgeting & resource/purchase prioritization

· Worked with multinational team & coordinated between organizations on
three continents.

· Provided advanced support to researchers & analysts

· Mentored and provided leadership to junior employees

· Full life-cycle support on HP (primarily DL3x0), SGI (UV100 & UV1000),
network & SAN equipment.

March 2010 to July 2010: Vendio Services, Inc. Contract Linux/Unix
Systems Administration

· Provide operational coverage & systems administration support during a
transitional period

November 08 to November 09: /Raytheon/ Intl. Sup Co., Senior
Technologist II (Baghdad, Iraq)

· Install and supporting VMWare ESX & Virtual Center at over 9 sites
around Iraq for Centcom

· Mentored and provided leadership to junior employees

September 07 to November 08: Consulting and Contracting

· Support for VMWare's ESX/Virtual Infrastructure to Single Point Of Contact

· Linux, Unix, and VMWare/Virtualization support to Saratoga Data Systems

January 06 to August 07: VMWare, Inc.; Technical Support Engineer

· Second level product support for VMWare's software products including
ESX, Virtual Infrastructure, Virtual Center, VMWare Server & Workstation

June '00 to September '04: Vendio Services Inc. Senior Systems
Administrator, Team lead;

Team lead in the operations group responsible for system design,
installation, monitoring & maintenance of the AuctionWatch.com &
Vendio.com platforms

· Project planning, security Linux Administration

· Managing day to day tasks of a small team

· Helped reduce operating expenses from $350,000 to under $40,000 per month

· Mentored & provided leadership to junior employees

Technical Synopsis

Experience working in a 24×7 and “Mission Critical” operations
environments ranging from Silicon Valley startups to DoD data centers
and research labs. with the majority of the experience being with Linux
based systems (Predominately Red Hat derived systems and Debian/Ubuntu)
VMWare ESX.

Several years experience in running small to mid-sized (5 to 600 server)
Internet sites, as well as some experience large sites (5k servers) and
multi-site networks, internal IT and help desk/Technical Support.

Experience with project planning and management.

Worked with switches including the Cisco Catalyst and Nexus lines, most
of the experience is in vlan/switchport configuration and troubleshooting.

Experience in implementation and maintenance of VMWare's enterprise
virtualization products.

Some related experience with various SANs (EMC, HP, NetApp), mostly
troubleshooting
with VMWare.

Experience in security hardening and risk management, both in civilian
and DoD settings.

Experience with many layer four and five network protocols, including
SMTP (E-Mail), HTTP (Web servers), DNS (Bind). Experience with NFS, and
SAMBA/CIFS (Unix SMB filesharing software) as well as exposure to
Network Appliances' NetApp. Experience with NIS and LDAP. Utilized Linux
and OpenBSD to implement Proxies, Caching Web Proxies (with Squid and
Apache Traffic Server) and firewalls (Linux's IP Tables and Secure
Computing's Sidewinder). Network monitoring with Nagios, including
writing Plugins. Experience with both Hardware & Software RAID and LVM
on Linux. Implemented various archive, backup and DR
strategies—including the use of Veritas NetBackup, SystemImager. Created
Kickstart install servers and configurations.

Experience administrating both Mysql and PostgreSQL, including some
limited database development, as well as exposure to Oracle.

Proficient in BASH and Python scripting, almost comfortable in Perl, and
some PHP and C/C++, Experienced ub building software, both from packages
and from source code. Experience with Puppet, Cobbler and similar
technologies.

Certifications

CISSP
CompTIA: A+, Net+, Security+

VMWare: VCP 2.5 and 3.0

Education

School of the Art Institute of Chicago

Earned a Bachelors of Fine Arts. Studies focused on Graphic Design and
Art & Technology.

Clearances

TS/SCI (expired)

